---
layout: post
title: "Dissectologists available for preorder"
author: "Aaron Russell"
categories: literature
---

I'm very happy to announce that my recent collaboration with [Sandy Ewen](https://www.sandyewen.com/) is now available for preorder on limited edition cassette and digital download on Sedimental's [Bandcamp page](https://sedimental.bandcamp.com/album/dissectologists). Physical copies of the cassette should ship on or around June 5, 2026.

This new album was recorded at various places and times between 2019 and 2020. We worked in a pretty intuitive and free-form way, constructing the tracks asynchronously and doing a fair of multi-tracking, overdubs, and processing. Here's a quick rundown of what's on it:

1. **Greenfield:** Sandy and I recorded this track in Greenfield, MA in 2024. I programmed the background drone with [CSound](https://csound.com/), then re-tuned the oscillations to (roughly) align with frequencies that Sandy was making by rubbing a railroad spike with a metal rod over one of her guitar pickups. I tuned my guitar to match, and found a chord that I played repeatedly on top of everything else.
2. **Washington:** Recorded in Washington, DC in 2025. I programmed the background sound that starts out sounding like brown noise and converges to a more coherent tone with CSound. I wrote my guitar part ahead of time and ended up simplifying it a bit for the final recording. Sandy recorded a track of prepared guitar, and we did some processing of her track with [Mammut](https://archive.notam02.no/arkiv/doc/mammut/), a somewhat unpredictable spectral anaysis and resynthesis program, resulting in an additional track accidentally reminiscent of a [Shepard tone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shepard_tone), and another one that has kind of an "underwater" sound and is subtly introduced late in the piece. There is also some electric guitar feedback and two synth drone tracks in there that I already don't remember how I made (might be CSound, which I was using a lot at the time, might be a Teenage Engineering OP-1 synth belonging to my wife that was around the apartment, might be a Moog modular synth iPad app I was playing with).
3. **Coyoacán:** I recorded the original guitar part for this in the Coyoacán neighborhood of Mexico City in 2019, while my wife and I were studying Spanish for 6 weeks at [UNAM](https://cepe.unam.mx/). My part is made up of six loops of different lengths, each with a single note and a pause, runing independently on separate tracks, resulting in the notes changing order over time. I dug this project back up in Washington, DC in 2025 and added two time-smeared background tracks by processing the original loop track with Mammut again. Sandy added six short loops of a droning noise made by rubbing sidewalk chalk on her guitar strings, a kind of sound that was very important in the palette of our old band, the Weird Weeds.
4. **Houston:** Sandy and I were both in Houston in 2020, at the start of the Covid pandemic. We got together and recorded a long improvised track of my guitar feedback processed with effects pedals and whining noises Sandy made by holding glowing electric things near her pickups, as well as another track where I repeated the same pattern on guitar for 20 minutes while slowly changing the tuning of one string, the settings on a Moog ring modulator pedal, and my guitar's tone knob, while Sandy made more whining noises. The final track, as included on the album, also includes 2 tracks of my guitar processed with Mammut (which I was sort of addicted to during the assembly and mixing of these tracks), and a drone made with the tonewheel organ instrument included in Logic Pro.